- [Instructor] In this lesson, we'll create and protect
the branches required for using the GitFlow Workflow.
You will learn how to create a long-running branch
in GitLab and establish security to limit
who can push to the branch.
For our demonstration, we're going to
log into GitLab as the maintainer user
and we're going to be working with the flow project.
So we'll click on the project to navigate
into its area.
From here, we're going to click on Repository
and then select Branches.
Within the Branches section, we can click the
New Branch button to create our develop branch.
Develop will be the long-running branch
where we will merge all of our feature branches
within the GitFlow Workflow.
Once we've typed the branch name,
we then select master.
This means that, once we create the branch,
develop will contain an exact copy of master.
From there, develop can progress as we
add our feature branches to it.
Once satisfied with my selections,
I go ahead and click on the Create Branch option.
Now if I go to the Branches area on the sidebar,
you can see the develop branch.
Now there's one thing we need to notice here.
The master branch is protected,
however the develop branch is exposed.
We need to change that.
So let's scroll down on the sidebar
and go to Settings, and then Repository.
Within this area, you'll see the Protected Branches section
that we can expand.
Here's where we specify which of our branches
that we would like to protect,
or limit who can access.
In this case, we need to select our develop branch.
And then we're going to specify who can now
merge to this branch.
In our case, we only want to allow the maintainers
to merge to this branch.
The same for pushes.
We only want to allow maintainers to push
to this branch.
Now we can go ahead and click on Protect
in order to save that configuration.
If we expand the section once again,
you'll notice that develop is now protected.
We can also see this within the Branches area.
Now, let's test out our new configuration.
So if we click on Project, you'll see that we can
grab the url to our repository.
I'm gonna go ahead and copy that to the clipboard,
and then open a terminal.
From the terminal, I am going to use the git clone command
to clone the repository.
Once I attempt a clone, it's going to ask me
for my credentials.
I'm actually at this point going to use
the contributor account.
Remember, the contributor does not have
commit or push permissions on protected branches.
So now that we're logged-in as the contributor,
we can go ahead and enter the flow directory.
And at this point, we're going to go ahead
and build a local develop branch.
To do that, we use the git checkout command
with the dash b flag, and then we specify the name
of the local branch, in our case, develop.
From here, we're going to attempt to make a change
to the README file.
So here we see the contents of the README file.
I'll just go ahead and delete that line
and then write the file with vim.
So now we can commit these changes.
Now the contributor will attempt to push
these changes to the development branch
on the central repository.
The repository's going to ask for our credentials,
so I'm going to use the contributor account,
and provide the password.
You'll notice that due to our security
that we've placed on the branch within GitLab,
the contributor is not allowed to push these changes
to the develop branch.
So we have successfully protected our develop branch
within our central repository.
This is essential if we're going to practice GitFlow
on our team.